The only limitations in life come from how we choose to perceive our reality; so keep an open and ever-curious mind.

I have imagined death for myself many times, not so much out of fear or even a curiosity about how I would die: I frequent death in my mind because it reminds me of what is truly important about life.

We all have dreams, ambitions and perhaps even a feeling of purpose or destiny. I believe that in each person lies great wisdom and truth in their hearts, as well as an innate knowledge of what actions they need to take to fulfill their true desires.

One person's opinion about life may be profound, but collectively we have a more balanced and universal perspective. I wanted to know what people collectively believe to be the most important aspects of life; what gets in their way and what action they can take to reach their ideal life. To gain this information, I designed a set of questions that was sent out to people all over the world, and this is what it said:

I want you to imagine a scenario in which you know you are about to die; but before you do you have a chance to sit down with those you love and share the years of wisdom and insight your life has given you. Your time is short so you will be sharing from the following categories what you believe will have the most impact on enriching the lives of those you are leaving behind:


Please take a moment to answer these questions before you continue. It doesn't need to be perfect; just write down whatever comes up.


1. What are a few of your most important beliefs and/or qualities about life, ones that you feel have served you or others well?

2. What are some of your biggest fears and/or hurdles (current or conquered)?

3. What do you believe to be the most powerful actions that someone can take in life; actions that will lead to fulfilling ones' dreams and living out whatever their ideal life may be?

I was pleased to find that many people took part in answering my questions. I received hundreds of responses in a very short time and so I began the process of reading through them. I was looking for a diverse range of different perspectives and as I read them I tracked common themes.

It surprised me to find that just about every response was extremely unique. Instead of  finding lots of people repeating phrases that most hear throughout their lives, such as, "Treat others as you would want to be treated." I found that the responses were delightfully unexpected and full of people's inner wisdom.

I would like to share some of their words with you now, but first I will explain the underlying purpose of the questions. The questions are a process of transformation, and each one plays a part in assisting someone with creating powerful change in their life.

Let me show you what the first question is all about.
